We are in a small, intimate dark and smoky venue, dimly lit, like a room at the Museum of Jurassic Technology or the Hotel Cafe. Set in the corner is a large desk corner - and instrument halfway between a harp and a modular synth. (strings to pluck, mixer/loop board, pedals). The performer plucks the strings vertical and plays s cascading beautiful song that wows and mesmerizes the audience - their friend comes from the audience to contribute vocals and I lean in to hear a conversation between the musician and the mixer. They tweak several buttons on the digital interface.

Une famille de « castors » (ce sont des capybaras) envahit la maison. Ils courent autour du rez-de-chaussé, poursuivis par Happy, le chien de mes parents. Ils aiment beaucoup se faire gratter le ventre. La chason « We are family » est entamée par tout le monde. - Rêve de style « comédie musicale »

I'm playing the drums, a breakbeat, but better than I can play it in the waking world. It's fast and sounds complicated, and I realize someone is helping me, standing beside the drum kit playing quick little syncopated rhythms on the ride.

I had to marry Bernie Sanders for some reason. It was awkward. We made a plan.

The young couple next door are stalking us at home and monitoring our moves. They've been placing creepy doll versions of themselves on our lawn. I have three tuxedo cats now and they won't come in off the deck but I'm trying to get them to safety.

Yooo there was a fucking bear trying to cuddle me through the tent and I was so scared! I felt the pressure from its huge body compressing me!

The door fell off my car. I went to a mechanic and they made me download an app. They said it would all be made right through the app...

I was sitting in a booth at a restaurant in Italy with my partner and two friends. I saw an incel guy leering at us. I kept my eyes on him, eventually got up but didn't alert my friends. As I walked away I could see him opening fire and killing people. I ran around the other side of him and saw my partner dead.

A woman looked at my clothes and said your clothes are ugly let me give you some clothes and she handed me some pants that were three-dimensional layered with soil and gears and hay and beautiful flowers and a fence. and another shirt I remember less with hands at the end. (three-dimensional sweater hands, your real hands) 

Someone pranked the camp by switching all our socks for too small socks! My feet hurt.

J'ai rêvé que V et ju parlaient sur le divant et V disait qu'elle avait surpris gogo et Sammy à se déguiser. Sammy portait une perruque en paille de blé.

Asa and I went to my parents house and we pet the cats.

Someone kept touching me after I said no multiple times and I had a meltdown.

Playing on a replica rocket, of a rocket that got lost in space. Climbing on icebergs next to an underground base while Ritchie holds my shoes.

My friend was pregnant and really happy to tell me that their period stopped.

Sean and I were protecting the deepmay website in a backpack and we had to put it in a clear backpack so it could get sunlight and grow!

I dreamed that on the second to last day of deepmay I had to abruptly join the AI track. I was sitting in the classroom with everyone and I had to learn the whole week's worth of material in one day. I was super overwhelmed and embarrassed and frustrated. The next day we had to do projects and had no idea what to do. I think I'm picking up on some collective unconsciousness of the camp...

I'm at my house, in my yard, but it's different. I can only really describe it as a trash palace. Big lots, sheet metal fences, trailers, broken gate, tons of scrap and junk and things we're salvaging. I'm walking back there and I see some guy pushing away a shopping cart with some of our stuff in it, and I confront him and take it back. He has lots of other people's stuff too, but I don't really care.

My partner is reading a book that my new crush wrote that is a memoir of the next thirty days of her life. As a result, my partner knows what's going to happen next in this new relationship of mine! I sorta want her to tell me, but mostly I want her to stop reading the book! It seems unfair.

I am in, or I am, an n-dimensional space.

I am on a farm that is familiar but also not. A farm like the place we are now for camp. Like in many of my dreams, I feel like I am in a maze, lost. I walk around looking to find where I need to go. I end up somewhere unknown, I feel anxious, ever more lost, speed walking through spaces. I realize I can stop roaming, that I don't necessarily need to be elsewhere. I start to actually notice where I am, in a hut with a straw bed and an empty sleeping bag (blue), I notice I can smell the earth. I notice I no longer feel lost although I still don't know where I am. I am unlost, in a sense, because I am aware of the space and things around me. [scene change] I am now in bed snuggled up with a faceless/nondescript lover. I wake up.

I awoke in my bed. I was at home. There was a large bug in my bed. It wasn't moving and it started to slowly rise. I realize a larger bug caught it. I tried to chase the bigger bug. I found it in another room. It was on my fridge and had grown in size. It had also turned into a plant.

I was in a cave that had a deep dark pool and I found a golden human arm, possibly statue. Then I woke up. 

I dreamt I was a door to door makeup salesman and my face was a uniform shade of tan with no shadows or blemishes and I couldn't really move my lips.

I'm on a bus that is also a convenience store. I think I'm in Japan. I'm watching a woman take things from the shelves and shove them in her pockets, and I think "I would be scared to steal stuff in such a crowded convenience store bus." She tries to get off the back exit without paying, but the driver notices and closes the door before she can get off. 